---
layout: post
title:  "New Site!"
longtitle: "Jekyll "
author: Steve
date: 2019-02-11
---

Hello, all! I've had a "website" and domain name for a while now. I've used that domain for email before, and I set up the hosting server with WordPress. But good intentions don't always make for good follow-through, and I haven't really done much with it. Actually... anything, really.  That ends today!

<!--more-->

## Jekyll...

[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) first came to my attention about a several months ago, around September. I believe that it was from a Hacker News post, but I can't be sure at this point.. I hadn't previously heard of static site generators, and the idea intrigued me enough to start playing around with it. However, nothing ever really came out of me doing so at the time, and I never actually bothered to upload my testing files to GitHub.

Several weeks thereafter, I started my most recent job, and the ghost-of-a-project fell to the back of my mind.

## ...Then Bootstrap

In the past few weeks I've come into a greater amount of free time, and decided that it wouldn't be a bad idea to play around with some basic web dev ideas, since I've never really done so in any *real* depth. I spent a day or two messing around with Flask, but I actually found myself more interested in something else: the Flask tutorial code that I found included a reference link to Twitter's [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) CSS, to render a demo "jumbotron" on the Flask-created index page.

I wouldn't say that I'm great at design. I don't dislike it, but if I'm left to my own devices, I naturally gravitate toward very basic, plain designs. Enough to have something that *works*... but not much more. However, the prospect of having pre-created design elements (and premade community color palettes on top) gave me enough momentum towards actually wondering what I could build out of the blocks. There was something LEGO-ish about it, I suppose.

That Flask project in turn led to me reading more about Bootstrap, enough to try writing a basic website (well, it all started as just a single webpage really) using just the framework itself. For simplicity's sake, I left the Flask bit that I had started with, and began writing a basic, pure-HTML/CSS webpage. There was technically JavaScript in there too because of the Bootstrap inclusions, but nothing that I wrote. That site, over the course of a day or three, eventually turned into a basic About page for myself, which I decided to host on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) as a test.

## All Together Now!

So at this point, I'd basically forgotten about Jekyll, and was quite happy with the little Bootstrap site I found. Way down at the bottom of the Pages informational site, there's a little descriptor that says Jekyll sites are also supported. Suddenly, my little Jekyll site from last year surfaced from my memory. Over the past few days, I reorganized the About page into this small Jekyll site, and that's where we are tonight.

Overall, I'd say that the combination works pretty well for my use case. I recommend it for anyone who just wants a small website like this, as long as they have a basic understanding of HTML and CSS. However, I can see how this might not scale well if you need advanced features like automated future-date publishing, or multiple concurrent authors writing. If that's the case, WordPress might be the better option, without having to roll out something custom.


